# 0x05. Processes and signals

## Learning Objectives
- What is a PID? *Process Identification Number: automatically assigned to each process when it's created on a Unix-like operating system.*
- What is a process? *An executing (or running) instance of a program. Each process is guaranteed an unique PID.*
- How do you find a process' PID? *`ps-aux | grep [process-name]` gives PID and if it's running or not. `pidof [process-name]` only provides PID. `pgrep [process-name] shows all PIDs that match the search criteria.*
- How do you kill a process? *`SIGTERM` attempts to kill process but could be blocked. `SIGKILL` is the ultimate way to kill a process; the most efficient and effective way to terminate. `pkill` kills based on process name. `kill [PID]` kills with PID. `kill -9 [PID]` shuts down unresponsive service.*
- What is a signal? *It's an event generated by Linux in response to some condition. Upon receiving a signal, a process may take action. Maskaable signals can be changed or ignored by the user; non-maskable signals cannot.*
- What are the two signals that cannot be ignored? *`SIGKILL` and `SIGSTOP`*

## Tasks

### 0. What is my PID
Write a Bash script that displays its own PID.

### 1. List your processes
Write a Bash script that displays a list of currently running processes. Must show all processes, for all users, including those which might not have a TTY. Display in a user-oriented format. Show process hierarchy.

### 2. Show your Bash PID
Using your previous exercise command, write a Bash script that displays lines containing the `bash` word, thus allowing you to easilt get the PID of your Bash process. Cannot use pgrep.

### 3.Show your Bash PID made easy
Write a Bash script that displays the PID, along with the process name, of processes whose name contain the word `bash`. Cannot use ps.

### 4. To infinity and beyond
Write a Bash script that displays `To infinity and beyond` indefinitely. In between each iteration of the loop, add a `sleep 2`.

### 5. Don't stop me now!
We stopped our `4-to_infinity_and_beyond` process using `Ctrl+c` in the previous task, there is another way to do this. Write a Bash script that stops `4-to_infinity_and_beyond` process. Must use `kill`.

### 6. Stop me if you can
Write a Bash script that stops `4-to_infinity_and_beyond` process. Cannot use `kill` or `killall`.

### 7. Highlander
Write a Bash script that displays: `To infinity and beyond` indefinitely; with a `sleep 2` in between each iteration; `I am invincible!!!` when receiving a `SIGTERM` signal.

### 8. Beheaded process
Write a Bash script that kills the process `7-highlander`.
